<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [dropdown-menu](./dropdown-menu.md) &gt; [DropdownToggle](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggle.md)

## DropdownToggle() function

A dropdown toggle component that serves as the trigger for opening and closing the dropdown menu. It should be used as a child of the `Dropdown` component.

\*\*props\*\*

- `onClick`<!-- -->: An optional click handler. [DropdownToggle()](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggle.md) attaches its own internal click handler to handle toggling the dropdown menu when the toggle is clicked, but, if provided, this `onClick` handler will be called first. You can call `event.preventDefault()` in this click handler to prevent the default toggle behavior of opening/closing the dropdown menu. - `as`<!-- -->: The element type to render as. Defaults to `"button"`<!-- -->. If a custom component is used with the `as` prop, it must accept the following props: - `onClick`<!-- -->: A function that should be called when the toggle is clicked. The signature `(event: OnRequestOpenChangeEvent) => void` must be assignable to this prop. When this function is called, it will trigger the default toggle behavior of toggling the open state of the dropdown menu. - `ref`<!-- -->: A ref that should be attached to the underlying DOM element that is rendered by the custom component. This allows the dropdown menu to position itself correctly relative to the toggle. It must be an `HTMLElement` or a subtype thereof.

See [DropdownToggleAsRequiredProps](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggleasrequiredprops.md)<!-- -->.

**Signature:**

```typescript
export declare function DropdownToggle<T extends ElementType = "button">(input: DropdownToggleProps<T>): ReactNode;
```

## Parameters

<table><thead><tr><th>

Parameter


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

{ as, className, onClick, ...rest }


</td><td>

(not declared)


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

input


</td><td>

[DropdownToggleProps](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggleprops.md)<!-- -->&lt;T&gt;


</td><td>


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

**Returns:**

ReactNode

