<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [dropdown-menu](./dropdown-menu.md) &gt; [RequestOpenChangeReason](./dropdown-menu.requestopenchangereason.md)

## RequestOpenChangeReason type

A more specific reason for a request to change the open state of the dropdown menu, which can be used by clients to determine how to respond to the request.

The possible values used by this library are: - `clickToggle`<!-- -->: The user clicked on the dropdown toggle button. - `clickOutside`<!-- -->: The user clicked somewhere outside of the dropdown menu. - `clickLeafItem`<!-- -->: The user clicked on a menu item that does not contain a submenu (i.e. a "leaf" item). - `escapeKey`<!-- -->: The user pressed the Escape key while the dropdown menu was open. - `openSubmenu`<!-- -->: The client request to open a submenu when the dropdown menu is not currently open, so the dropdown menu is requesting to open first before opening the requested submenu. - `closeSubmenu`<!-- -->: The client called the `closeSubmenu` method of `DropdownHandle` and passed in the ID of the root menu, so the dropdown menu is requesting to close the entire menu.

A client can also define their own custom reasons by using any string value that is not one of the above values. For example, when creating your own custom dropdown toggle component, you can call `requestOpenChange` from [DropdownToggleContext](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntogglecontext.md) to request to change the open state of the dropdown menu and pass in your own custom reason.

**Signature:**

```typescript
export type RequestOpenChangeReason = RequestOpenChangeReasonInternal | (string & {});
```
**References:** [RequestOpenChangeReasonInternal](./dropdown-menu.requestopenchangereasoninternal.md)

