<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [dropdown-menu](./dropdown-menu.md)

## dropdown-menu package

## Functions

<table><thead><tr><th>

Function


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[disableLoggers()](./dropdown-menu.disableloggers.md)


</td><td>

A convenience function that disables all logging by setting all loggers to the no-op logger.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DisclosureIndicator({ className, style, children }, input)](./dropdown-menu.disclosureindicator.md)


</td><td>

A disclosure indicator component that shows a right-pointing caret icon.

The icon's color changes based on the open/closed state of the submenu, which is determined by the `DisclosureIndicatorContext`<!-- -->. When the submenu is open, the icon is black; when closed, it is gray.

If the options below are not sufficient for your use case, you can create your own custom disclosure indicator component and use the `DisclosureIndicatorContext` to access the submenu open/closed state. For example:

```tsx
import { useContext } from "react";
import { DisclosureIndicatorContext } from "dropdown-menu";

function MyCustomDisclosureIndicator() {
    const { submenuIsOpen } = useContext(DisclosureIndicatorContext);

    return (
        <span
            className="my-indicator"
            // use the submenu open state to set a data attribute that can be
            // used for styling in CSS via an attribute selector
            data-submenu-open={submenuIsOpen}
        >
            ▶︎
        </span>
    );
}
```


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[Dropdown(props)](./dropdown-menu.dropdown.md)


</td><td>

A dropdown component that serves as the root of the dropdown menu. It should wrap a [DropdownMenu()](./dropdown-menu.dropdownmenu.md) component, which contains the actual menu content, and a [DropdownToggle()](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggle.md) component, which is used to toggle the opening and closing of the menu.

Can contain dropdown items and arbitrarily nested submenus. The dropdown menu is opened by clicking on the toggle button, and can be closed by clicking outside of the menu or by pressing the Escape key. The menu supports keyboard navigation and will automatically reposition itself to stay within the visual viewport.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownDivider()](./dropdown-menu.dropdowndivider.md)


</td><td>

A simple divider component that renders a horizontal rule (`<hr>`<!-- -->) with the class `bd-dropdown-divider`<!-- -->. This can be used to visually separate groups of items within the dropdown menu.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownItem(props)](./dropdown-menu.dropdownitem.md)


</td><td>

A dropdown item component that can optionally contain a submenu.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownMenu(props)](./dropdown-menu.dropdownmenu.md)


</td><td>

The dropdown menu component that should be used as a child of `Dropdown`<!-- -->. This component is responsible for rendering the dropdown menu and its contents, which can include arbitrarily nested submenus. It should only be used once per dropdown menu (i.e. per `Dropdown` component instance).


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownToggle({ as, className, onClick, children, ...rest }, input)](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggle.md)


</td><td>

A dropdown toggle component that serves as the trigger for opening and closing the dropdown menu. It should be used as a child of the `Dropdown` component.

Calling `event.preventDefault()` in the `onClick` handler of the toggle will prevent the default toggle behavior, which is to toggle the open state of the dropdown menu.

The `as` prop can be used to render a different element type instead of the default "button". If a custom component is used with the `as` prop, it must accept the following props: - `onClick`<!-- -->: A function that should be called when the toggle is clicked. The signature `(event: OnRequestOpenChangeEvent) => void` must be assignable to this prop. When this function is called, it will trigger the default toggle behavior of toggling the open state of the dropdown menu. - `ref`<!-- -->: A ref that should be attached to the underlying DOM element that is rendered by the custom component. This allows the dropdown menu to position itself correctly relative to the toggle. It must be an `HTMLElement` or a subtype thereof.

See [DropdownToggleAsRequiredProps](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggleasrequiredprops.md)<!-- -->.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[setConsoleLoggers()](./dropdown-menu.setconsoleloggers.md)


</td><td>

A convenience function that configures all loggers to use the browser console.

Each log message is prefixed with the logger name in square brackets.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[setDebugConfig(newConfig)](./dropdown-menu.setdebugconfig.md)


</td><td>

Sets debug configuration options for the dropdown menu.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[setLoggers(loggers)](./dropdown-menu.setloggers.md)


</td><td>

Sets the loggers for this library.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Variables

<table><thead><tr><th>

Variable


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[defaultDebugConfig](./dropdown-menu.defaultdebugconfig.md)


</td><td>

Default debug configuration. This can be changed via setDebugConfig. Never mutate this object directly.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DisclosureIndicatorContext](./dropdown-menu.disclosureindicatorcontext.md)


</td><td>

The context for the disclosure indicator of a dropdown item, which provides information about whether the submenu associated with the dropdown item is currently open or closed. This context is used by the default [DisclosureIndicator()](./dropdown-menu.disclosureindicator.md) component to determine the color of the disclosure indicator icon, but it can also be used by custom disclosure indicator components.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownItemLabel](./dropdown-menu.dropdownitemlabel.md)


</td><td>

A dropdown item label component that is used to set the label of a dropdown item when it is used as a child of a `DropdownItem`<!-- -->.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownItemSubmenu](./dropdown-menu.dropdownitemsubmenu.md)


</td><td>

A dropdown item submenu component that is used to set the submenu of a dropdown item when it is used as a child of a [DropdownItem()](./dropdown-menu.dropdownitem.md)<!-- -->. The submenu content should consist primarily of [DropdownItem()](./dropdown-menu.dropdownitem.md) components, but can also include other components, such as [DropdownDivider()](./dropdown-menu.dropdowndivider.md)<!-- -->.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownOpenContext](./dropdown-menu.dropdownopencontext.md)


</td><td>

The context for the open/closed state of the dropdown menu. It provides a boolean `isOpen` that indicates whether the dropdown menu is currently open or closed.

If you are using the default [Dropdown()](./dropdown-menu.dropdown.md) component, you do not need to interact with this context directly. However, if you are creating a custom dropdown component, you can use this context to determine the open/closed state of the dropdown menu.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownToggleContext](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntogglecontext.md)


</td><td>

The context for the dropdown toggle component, which provides a function to request changes to that state. It also provides a ref that should be attached to the underlying DOM element rendered by the dropdown toggle, which allows the dropdown menu to position itself correctly relative to the toggle.

If you are using the default [DropdownToggle()](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggle.md) component, you do not need to interact with this context directly. However, if you are creating a custom dropdown toggle component, you can use this context coordinate with the dropdown menu.

The value received from this context has a stable identity and will never change between renders.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[noopLogger](./dropdown-menu.nooplogger.md)


</td><td>

A no-op logger that can be used to disable logging. This is the default logger for all loggers in this library.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Type Aliases

<table><thead><tr><th>

Type Alias


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[DebugConfig](./dropdown-menu.debugconfig.md)


</td><td>

Debug configuration options for the dropdown menu.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DisclosureIndicatorContextType](./dropdown-menu.disclosureindicatorcontexttype.md)


</td><td>

The context type for the disclosure indicator of a dropdown item, which provides information about whether the submenu associated with the dropdown item is currently open or closed. This context is used by the default [DisclosureIndicator()](./dropdown-menu.disclosureindicator.md) component to determine the color of the disclosure indicator icon, but it can also be used by custom disclosure indicator components.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DisclosureIndicatorProps](./dropdown-menu.disclosureindicatorprops.md)


</td><td>

Props for the `DisclosureIndicator` component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownHandle](./dropdown-menu.dropdownhandle.md)


</td><td>

An imperative handle for the [Dropdown()](./dropdown-menu.dropdown.md) component that allows parent components to imperatively control the open state of the dropdown menu and access information about the open submenus.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownItemLabelProps](./dropdown-menu.dropdownitemlabelprops.md)


</td><td>

Props for the `DropdownItemLabel` component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownItemMouseEvent](./dropdown-menu.dropdownitemmouseevent.md)


</td><td>

The event object passed to the `onClick` handler of a `DropdownItem`<!-- -->. It extends the native `MouseEvent` with additional methods for preventing the default click behavior of closing the dropdown menu or closing non-parent submenus when a leaf item is clicked.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownItemProps](./dropdown-menu.dropdownitemprops.md)


</td><td>

Props for the [DropdownItem()](./dropdown-menu.dropdownitem.md) component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownItemSubmenuProps](./dropdown-menu.dropdownitemsubmenuprops.md)


</td><td>

Props for the [DropdownItemSubmenu](./dropdown-menu.dropdownitemsubmenu.md) component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownMenuLogger](./dropdown-menu.dropdownmenulogger.md)


</td><td>

The basic interface for loggers used in this library.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownMenuLoggers](./dropdown-menu.dropdownmenuloggers.md)


</td><td>

An object containing all loggers used in this library. This can be used to set all loggers at once via the `setLoggers` function.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownMenuProps](./dropdown-menu.dropdownmenuprops.md)


</td><td>

The props for the `DropdownMenu` component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownOpenContextType](./dropdown-menu.dropdownopencontexttype.md)


</td><td>

The context for the open/closed state of the dropdown menu. It provides a boolean `isOpen` that indicates whether the dropdown menu is currently open or closed.

If you are using the default [Dropdown()](./dropdown-menu.dropdown.md) component, you do not need to interact with this context directly. However, if you are creating a custom dropdown component, you can use this context to determine the open/closed state of the dropdown menu.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownProps](./dropdown-menu.dropdownprops.md)


</td><td>

Props for the `Dropdown` component.

This component can be used in either an internally controlled or externally controlled mode. In the internally controlled mode, the open state of the dropdown menu is managed internally by the component, and the `isOpen` and `onOpenChange` props should not be provided. In the externally controlled mode, the open state of the dropdown menu is managed by the parent component, and BOTH the `isOpen` and `onOpenChange` props must be provided.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownPropsBase](./dropdown-menu.dropdownpropsbase.md)


</td><td>

The base props for the [Dropdown()](./dropdown-menu.dropdown.md) component, which are shared between both the internally controlled and externally controlled versions of the component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownPropsExternallyControlled](./dropdown-menu.dropdownpropsexternallycontrolled.md)


</td><td>

Props for the `Dropdown` component when the open state is controlled externally via the `isOpen` prop. In this case, the `isOpen` and `onRequestOpenChange` props must both be provided.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownPropsInternallyControlled](./dropdown-menu.dropdownpropsinternallycontrolled.md)


</td><td>

Props for the `Dropdown` component when the open state is controlled internally by the component. In this case, the `isOpen` and `onRequestOpenChange` props should not be provided.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownToggleAsRequiredProps](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggleasrequiredprops.md)


</td><td>

The props that a custom component must accept in order to be used as the `as` prop of [DropdownToggle()](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggle.md)<!-- -->.

The custom component must accept the following props: - `onClick`<!-- -->: A function that should be called when the toggle is clicked. The signature `(event: OnRequestOpenChangeEvent) => void` must be assignable to this prop. When this function is called, it will trigger the default toggle behavior of toggling the open state of the dropdown menu. - `ref`<!-- -->: A ref that should be attached to the underlying DOM element that is rendered by the custom component. This allows the dropdown menu to position itself correctly relative to the toggle. It must be an `HTMLElement` or a subtype thereof.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownToggleContextType](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntogglecontexttype.md)


</td><td>

The context type for the dropdown toggle component, which provides a function to request changes to that state. It also provides a ref that should be attached to the underlying DOM element rendered by the dropdown toggle, which allows the dropdown menu to position itself correctly relative to the toggle.

If you are using the default [DropdownToggle()](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggle.md) component, you do not need to interact with this context directly. However, if you are creating a custom dropdown toggle component, you can use this context coordinate with the dropdown menu.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownToggleOwnProps](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggleownprops.md)


</td><td>

Own props for the [DropdownToggle()](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggle.md) component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DropdownToggleProps](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggleprops.md)


</td><td>

Props for the [DropdownToggle()](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggle.md) component.

Requires the chosen `as` target supports an `onClick` prop compatible with `OnRequestOpenChangeEvent`<!-- -->. See also [DropdownToggleAsRequiredProps](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggleasrequiredprops.md) for the required props for a custom `as` component.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[OnRequestOpenChangeOptions](./dropdown-menu.onrequestopenchangeoptions.md)


</td><td>

The options for a request to change the open state of the dropdown menu.

This is used by the `onRequestOpenChange` callback prop of the [Dropdown()](./dropdown-menu.dropdown.md) component, which is called whenever the dropdown menu requests to change its open state.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[RequestOpenChangeEvent](./dropdown-menu.requestopenchangeevent.md)


</td><td>

An event that could trigger a request for the dropdown menu to change its open state. This could be a native DOM event or a React synthetic event.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[RequestOpenChangeOptions](./dropdown-menu.requestopenchangeoptions.md)


</td><td>

The options for a request to change the open state of the dropdown menu.

It is mainly used by the [DropdownToggle()](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggle.md) component to request to open or close the dropdown menu when the user interacts with the toggle button, but it can also be used by other components to request open state changes for other reasons, such as when a submenu item is clicked and the menu should close.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[RequestOpenChangeOptionsBase](./dropdown-menu.requestopenchangeoptionsbase.md)


</td><td>

The base options for a request to change the open state of the dropdown menu. Excludes the `open` property. See [OnRequestOpenChangeOptions](./dropdown-menu.onrequestopenchangeoptions.md) for the full options object.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[RequestOpenChangeReason](./dropdown-menu.requestopenchangereason.md)


</td><td>

A more specific reason for a request to change the open state of the dropdown menu, which can be used by clients to determine how to respond to the request.

The possible values used by this library are: - `clickToggle`<!-- -->: The user clicked on the dropdown toggle button. - `clickOutside`<!-- -->: The user clicked somewhere outside of the dropdown menu. - `clickLeafItem`<!-- -->: The user clicked on a menu item that does not contain a submenu (i.e. a "leaf" item). - `escapeKey`<!-- -->: The user pressed the Escape key while the dropdown menu was open. - `openSubmenu`<!-- -->: The client request to open a submenu when the dropdown menu is not currently open, so the dropdown menu is requesting to open first before opening the requested submenu. - `closeSubmenu`<!-- -->: The client called the `closeSubmenu` method of `DropdownHandle` and passed in the ID of the root menu, so the dropdown menu is requesting to close the entire menu.

A client can also define their own custom reasons by using any string value that is not one of the above values. For example, when creating your own custom dropdown toggle component, you can call `requestOpenChange` from [DropdownToggleContext](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntogglecontext.md) to request to change the open state of the dropdown menu and pass in your own custom reason.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[RequestOpenChangeReasonInternal](./dropdown-menu.requestopenchangereasoninternal.md)


</td><td>

All of the reasons used internally by this library to trigger open state changes. See [RequestOpenChangeReason](./dropdown-menu.requestopenchangereason.md)<!-- -->.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[SetLoggers](./dropdown-menu.setloggers.md)


</td><td>

The type for the `setLoggers` function, which can be used to set the loggers for this library. This can be either an object containing the loggers to set, or a function that takes the current loggers and returns such an object or void to indicate no reassignments to the loggers. The latter form allows for in-place mutation of the loggers.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

