<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [dropdown-menu](./dropdown-menu.md) &gt; [useDropdownToggle](./dropdown-menu.usedropdowntoggle.md)

## useDropdownToggle() function

A hook that provides the necessary state and functions for a custom dropdown toggle component to function correctly within the dropdown menu system. It provides the current open state of the dropdown menu, a function to request changes to that state, and a ref that should be attached to the underlying DOM element rendered by the dropdown toggle.

If you are using the default [DropdownToggle()](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntoggle.md) component, you do not need to use this hook directly. However, if you are creating a custom dropdown toggle component, you can use this hook to coordinate with the dropdown menu. It must be used within a component that is a descendant of a [Dropdown()](./dropdown-menu.dropdown.md) component, which provides the necessary context providers for this hook to function.

Internally, it depends on the [DropdownOpenContext](./dropdown-menu.dropdownopencontext.md) and [DropdownToggleContext](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntogglecontext.md) to get the necessary state and functions. Therefore, it must be used within a component that is a descendant of a [Dropdown()](./dropdown-menu.dropdown.md) component, which provides these contexts.

[DropdownOpenContext](./dropdown-menu.dropdownopencontext.md) provides a single reactive `isOpen` value that indicates whether the dropdown menu is currently open or closed. This value will update whenever the open state of the dropdown menu changes, allowing your custom toggle component to react to these changes and render accordingly.

[DropdownToggleContext](./dropdown-menu.dropdowntogglecontext.md) provides a `requestOpenChange` function that can be called to request changes to the open state of the dropdown menu, and a `dropdownToggleRef` that should be attached to the underlying DOM element rendered by the dropdown toggle. The value provided by this context has a stable identity and will never change between renders. Therefore, if you only need access to these props, you can use the `useContext` hook directly with `DropdownToggleContext` instead of using this hook. This prevents your component from re-rendering when the `isOpen` value changes if you do not need to react to those changes.

**Signature:**

```typescript
export declare function useDropdownToggle(): UseDropdownToggleResult;
```
**Returns:**

[UseDropdownToggleResult](./dropdown-menu.usedropdowntoggleresult.md)

